#+SETUPFILE: setup.xorg

Tradition dictates that we open the work with introspection and
philosophy. Let us consider a twist, then, on the classic question:
Can a multiverse of diverging world lines be justifiably called
infinite?  We can trivially /imagine/ an infinity of different
configurations, but there is no guarantee that every world which is
possible is real, let alone reachable.

What is the scale and the scope of the possible? Our own universe is
quite finely tuned: a mere half-percent adjustment to the strong
nuclear force would make /carbon/ a precious rare element, and a full
2% would make stars as we know them impossible; our existence is
already an exercise in the arbitrary and ridiculous. Surely then we
ought keep an open mind when it comes to exotic universes. One writer
I know would have you imagine a spacetime with a positive-definite
Reimannian metric, where one can stop or reverse the flow of time
itself by flying about in a clockwork rocket!

In our universe of ridiculous universes, what laws must we find to be
truly immutable?  What mathematics underlies the last bastion of
sanity as our imaginary universes teeter on the madness of seething,
untameable chaos?

Chaos. Order. The progression of order to chaos. Surely, in any set of
laws one can propose, it must remain a fact that there are more ways
to be chaotic than there are to be ordered. Statistics, then, must
rule over all, and the ultimate law of all universes is entropy.

But we must put aside our feeble poetry for now and return to our ship
of fools. Oh, yes, they chase phantoms as before. What will happen, I
wonder, if they catch one?
